[Edit]: Python `eval()` (#7205)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/built-in-functions/terms/eval/eval.md

```

**Parameters:**

- `expression`: A string containing a valid Python expression to be evaluated
- `globals` (optional): A [dictionary](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/dictionaries) specifying the global namespace for the evaluation
- `locals` (optional): A dictionary specifying the local namespace for the evaluation

**Return value:**

The `eval()` function returns the result of the evaluated expression. The return type depends on the expression being evaluated.

## Example 1: Basic Mathematical Evaluation

The following example demonstrates the fundamental usage of `eval()` for evaluating simple mathematical expressions:

```py
# Evaluating basic arithmetic expressions
result1 = eval("5 + 3")
print(f"5 + 3 = {result1}")

result2 = eval("10 * 2 - 5")
print(f"10 * 2 - 5 = {result2}")

# Evaluating expressions with variables
x = 4
result3 = eval("x ** 2 + 1")
print(f"x ** 2 + 1 = {result3}")
```

The output of this code is:

```shell
5 + 3 = 8
10 * 2 - 5 = 15
x ** 2 + 1 = 17
```

This example shows how `eval()` can process mathematical expressions stored as strings and return their computed values.

## Example 2: Dynamic Calculator Application

> This example demonstrates a real-world scenario where `eval()` can be used to create a simple calculator that processes user input:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates a real-world scenario where `eval()` can be used to create a simple calculator that processes user input:
```

```py
def safe_calculator():
  # Define allowed mathematical operations
  allowed_names = {
    'abs': abs, 'round': round, 'min': min, 'max': max,
    'sum': sum, 'pow': pow, 'sqrt': lambda x: x ** 0.5
  }

  # Set up a safe global environment (no built-ins, only allowed functions)
  safe_globals = {"__builtins__": None}
  safe_globals.update(allowed_names)

  print("Simple Calculator (type 'quit' to exit)")

  while True:
    try:
      # Get user input
      expression = input("Enter expression: ")

      if expression.lower() == 'quit':
        break

      # Evaluate with restricted namespace
      result = eval(expression, safe_globals)
      print(f"Result: {result}")

    except Exception as e:
      print(f"Error: {e}")

safe_calculator()

# Example usage
# User inputs: "25 + 17", "sqrt(144)", "pow(2, 3)"
```

> Th e above code will produce the following output based on the example inputs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above code will produce the following output based on the example inputs:
```
